I'll show you how to make a
summarizer. Let's dive in.
First I'll show you
a brief overview
of the transformer model code.
Then you'll see some
technical details
about the data processing
for summarization.
At the end of this video,
you'll see how to make inferences
with a language model.
First, take a look
at the problem you
will solve in this
week's assignment.
As input, you get
whole news articles.
As output, your model is
expected to produce the
summary of the articles,
that is, few sentences
that mention the most
important ideas.
To do this, you'll use
the transformer model that I
showed you in previous videos.
But one thing may immediately
stand out to you.
Transformer only takes text
as input and predicts
the next word.
For summarization, it turns
out you just need to
concatenate the input,
in this case the article,
and put the summary after
it. Let me show you how.
Here's an example of how to
create input features for
training the transformer from
an article and its summary.
The input for the model is
a long text that starts
with a news article,
then comes the EOS tag,
the summary, and then
another EOS tag.
As usual, the input is
tokenized as a
sequence of integers.
Here, zero denotes padding,
and one EOS,
and all other numbers for the
tokens for different words.
When you're on the
transformer on this input,
it will predict the next word
by looking at all
the previous ones.
But you do not want to
have a huge loss in
the model just because it's
not able to predict
the correct ones.
That's why you have to
use a weighted loss.
Instead of averaging the loss
for every word in
the whole sequence,
you weight the
loss for the words
within the article with zeros,
and the ones within
the summary with
ones so the model only
focuses on the summary.
However, when there is little
data for the summaries,
it actually helps to waste
the article loss with
non zero numbers,
say 0.2 or 0.5 or even one.
That way, the model is able to
learn word relationships
that are common in the news.
You will not have to do it
for this week's assignment.
But it's good that
you have this in
mind for your own applications.
Another way to look at
what I discussed in
the previous slide is by
looking at the cost function,
which sums the losses
over the words J
within the summary for every
example I in the batch.
The cost function is a
cross entropy function
that ignores the words from
the article to be summarized.
Now that you know
how to construct
the inputs and the model,
you can train your
transformer summarizer.
Recall again that
transformers predict
the next word and your
input is in use article.
At test or inference time,
you will input the
article with the EOS
token to the model and
ask for the next word.
It is the first word
of the summary.
Then you will ask
for the next word,
and the next, and so on,
until you get the EOS token.
When you run your
transformer model,
it generates a
probability distribution
over all possible words.
You will sample from
this distribution
so each time you
run this process,
you'll get a different summary.
I think you'll have
fun experimenting
with this in the
coding exercise.
In this video, you
saw how to implement
a transformer decoder
for summarization.
As a key point, the
model aims to optimize
a weighted cross
entropy function
that focuses on the summary.
The summarization
task is basically
text generation where the
whole article is input.
This week you have learned
how to build your
own transformer,
and you have used it to
create a summarizer.
I hope you enjoyed the journey.
Transformer is a
really powerful model
that is not hard to understand.
Next week, I'll show you how
to get even better results.
You'll use a more
powerful version of
transformer with pre
training. Don't miss it.